title: Highlights of 2020
subtitle: A summary of the research activities of 2020
author: 
tags: COVID-19, NRF projects
date: 2020-04-01
text:

The COVID-19 outbreak at the beginning of 2020 allowed all researchers of MMIV to focus on research efforts of disease prevention and characterization of patient data affected by the outbreak. The MMIV clinical response team created tools and procedures to manage the data capture of COVID-19 cases for image and assessment instruments. This included simple measures such as adjusting the radiology workflow at MMIV to allow all radiologists working at MMIV to occupy separate rooms limiting the potential effects of an outbreak.

In 2020 we have received new funding for a project on workflow-related machine learning from the Norwegian Research Council. The project is headed by Hauke Bartsch, Alexander Lundervold, Ingfrid Haldorsen, Arvid Lundervold, Erlend Hodneland, and Erling Andersen. The primary objective of this project is to construct a robust, working prototype that receive a DICOM study pushed from the PACS system, setup and run it through deep learning-based image processing methods, and format and return the resulting information, segmentation mask, derived reports, and quantitative measures back into the PACS. The system will also facilitate the evaluation and further training of the deep learning model based on feedback from the user by storing such modifications as annotations in the PACS. The prototype workflow will be assessed by experienced radiologists from the relevant clinical domains. Secondary objective is to prove that our approach is generalizable. This objective is three-fold: the approach should generalize to other computational medical imaging methods, different medical applications, and provide a clear path to embed our product in production-level, widely used PACS and image reading systems.

