Organization/org01/b.md, before:

title: Scientific Advisory Board
subtitle:
text:

The scientific advisory board at the MMIV consists of four senior scientists who cover the research focus areas of the MMIV:

\subsection*{Anders Persson}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/AndersPersson.png}
\end{Figure}

Professor Anders Persson, PhD and MD, received his medical degree at Karolinska Institute, Faculty of Medicine, Stockholm Sweden in 1985 and completed his specialty radiology training in 1992.
Since 2003 Director and cofounder of Center for Medical Science and Visualization (CMIV) and professor Department of Health Medicine and Care, University of Link\"oping Sweden. Guest Professor, Clinical Science Intervention and Technology Karolinska Institute Sweden. Senior physician Radiology Link\"oping university Hospital. 
CMIV conducts focused front-line research within multidisciplinary projects providing solutions to tomorrow’s clinical issues. The mission is to develop future methods and tools for image analysis and visualization for applications within health care and medical research. CMIV is formally a center within Link\"oping University and is governed by its Board of Directors, with representatives from academia, health care and industry. CMIV is located in its own university premises, 7500 square meter, in  the center of the university hospital where a large number of clinical examinations are performed using its own modalities. Medical, computer science and AI research projects bring a mixed group of people together. More than 130 Engineers, technical and medical researchers, etc. are all involved in the center and its research.
Prof. Persson has been working in the field of medical image applications for over 30 years. Currently his research is focusing on algorithms for specific clinical investigations (Dual Energy, Photon Counting CT, Flow simulations and AI) mainly in the cardiovascular field. He has been a Visiting professor Mayo clinic's USA, May 2009 – lecturing forensic science. During 2014 -2020 member of the advisory board for the Photon-Counting CT at MAYO clinics. He has >200 Refereed journal and conference publications 2003-2020, >900 Invited talks and 10 book chapters. Large number of ongoing leadership, appointments and commissions of trust. European Institute of Bio Medical Imaging EIBIR (in Advisory board). Board member European ESR Research Committee. European Imaging Biomarkers Alliance, EIBAL. Board member Radiological Society of North America, Research \& Education.
Several international and national awards such as H.M. The Kings Gold Medal H.M. for special merit in Medical Image Science Research, 2017, RSNA Cum Lade and Lennart Nilsson Award. The Royal Photographic Society Award U.K. 2011, Athena award for best medical research in Sweden. The Royal College Society Combined Scientific Gold Medal in UK. 2013.

\subsection*{Bernhard Preim}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/Bernhard.jpg}
\end{Figure}

Bernhard Preim is a specialist in human-computer interaction as well as in visual computing for medicine. He is currently professor of visualization at University of Magdeburg, Germany.
Preim received the diploma in computer science in 1994 (minor in mathematics) and a PhD in 1998 from the Otto-von-Guericke University Magdeburg (PhD thesis "Interactive Illustrations and Animations for the Exploration of Spatial Relations"). In 1999, he joined the staff of MeVis (Center for Medical Diagnosis System and Visualization, headed by Heinz-Otto Peitgen). In close collaboration with radiologists and surgeons, he directed the work on "computer-aided planning in liver surgery" and initiated several projects funded by the German Research Council in the area of computer-aided surgery. In June 2002, he received the Habilitation degree (venia legendi) for computer science from the University of Bremen. Since Mars 2003 he is full professor for "Visualization" at the computer science department at the Otto-von-Guericke-University of Magdeburg, heading a research group which is focussed on medical visualization and applications in surgical education and surgery planning. These developments are summarized in the textbook Visualization in Medicine (Co-author Dirk Bartz, 2007). 
Bernhard Preim was founding speaker of the working group Medical Visualization in the German Society for Computer Science (2003–2012). He initiated the Karl-Heinz-H\"ohne Medvis-Award in 2004 to honor excellent research results from Phd students. He is the chair of the scientific advisory board of ICCAS and was president of the CURAC (German Society for Computer- and Roboter-assisted Surgery (2013-2015)) and Visiting Professor at the University of Bremen where he closely collaborates with MeVis Research (now Fraunhofer MEVIS). Together with Charl Botha, TU Delft, he founded the VCBM Eurographics workshop series and co-authored the book "Visual Computing for Medicine" (2013). He authored and co-authored three textbooks on "Interactive Systems" (1999, 2010, 2015).

\subsection*{Bradley J Erickson}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/Bradley.jpg}
\end{Figure}

Bradley J Erickson, MD PhD, received his MD and PhD degrees from Mayo Clinic. He went on to be trained in radiology, and then a Neuroradiology fellowship at Mayo, and has been on staff at Mayo for 20 years, where he does clinical Neuroradiology, has been chair of the Radiology Informatics Division and is Associate Chair for Research. He has been awarded multiple external grants, including NIH grants on MS, brain tumors, polycystic kidney disease, and medical image exchange. He is a former president of the Society of Imaging Informatics in Medicine, is current Chair of the American Board of Imaging Informatics, and serves on the Board of the IHE USA. He recently won the nVIDIA Global Impact Award for his work on deep learning applications in medical images.

\subsection*{Anders Dale}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/AndersDale.jpg}
\end{Figure}
Anders Martin Dale is a neuroscientist and Professor of Radiology, Neurosciences, Psychiatry, and Cognitive Science at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) and the founding Director of the Center for Multimodal Imaging Genetics (CMIG) at UCSD. His research focuses on the development and application of advanced techniques for acquisition and analysis of multimodal structural and functional imaging data. Several of these methods have had major, and in some cases transformative, impact on their respective fields. Specific examples include 1) development of rapid event related experimental design and statistical analysis methods for fMRI; 2) development of fully automated methods for segmentation of the cortical surface, subcortical nuclei, and white matter tracts from MRI scans – instantiated in the FreeSurfer software package, used by more than 10,000 researchers around the world; 3) development of standardized image acquisition protocols and analysis procedures enabling use of quantitative imaging biomarker in large-scale, multisite research studies, as well as in clinical practice – these procedures were fundamental to the success of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), the Pediatric Imaging Neurocognition and Genetics (PING), and the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study. He serves as the PI of the Data Analysis and Informatics Resource Center (DAIRC) of the ABCD Study. He has authored more than 500 peer-reviewed publications, with more than 118,000 total citations, an h-index of 148, and was recently listed among the top ten "most influential brain scientists of the modern era" (Science, 2016).

Commit message:

add some text to Organization

Organization/org01/b.md, after:

title: Organization
subtitle:
text:

MMIV is organized as a unit within the Department of Radiology at HUS. Since March 2019 MMIV has been localized on the top floor of the new Haraldsplass building with spacious office facilities including 15 offices and additional meeting-/lunch rooms and mingling area.

The primary investigators (PIs) and researchers at MMIV hold their main positions at HUS, UiB, HVL or Norwegian Research Center (Norce), and some of the PIs also hold adjunct professorships/research positions at UiB/HUS.

HUS has PIs/researchers from Dep. of Radiology and Womens Clinic, and many collaborating partners at other hospital departments. The UiB has PIs/MMIV affiliated researchers from Faculty of Medicine (Depts. of Clinical Medicine, Clinical Science and Biomedicine), Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (Depts. of Informatics and Mathematics) and Faculty of Psychology (Dep. of Biological and Medical Psychology). HVL (Faculty of Engineering and Science) and NORCE (Dep. of Technology) are also represented with PIs.

The leadership group comprising principal investigators of the teams meet monthly to discuss scientific and administrative issues and share updates on progress and plans for the different projects. A monthly public MMIV seminar (duration 60 minutes) followed by coffee/waffles is hosted at Haraldplass in conjuncture with this leadership meeting. The daily management group at MMIV (comprising the Head of MMIV, Ingfrid Haldorsen, senior researcher Hauke Bartsch, associate professor Noeska Smit and Elin Myhrvold [secretary]) have weekly meetings.

Guiding the scientific direction of MMIV, a scientific advisory board (SAB) has been appointed (page x). They comprise highly acknowledged international scientists who push the limits of imaging sciences to transform medicine, and we are very enthusiastic to capitalize on close interaction with the SAB in the years to come.


\section*{Scientific Advisory Board}

The scientific advisory board at the MMIV consists of four senior scientists who cover the research focus areas of the MMIV:

\subsection*{Anders Persson}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/AndersPersson.png}
\end{Figure}

Professor Anders Persson, PhD and MD, received his medical degree at Karolinska Institute, Faculty of Medicine, Stockholm Sweden in 1985 and completed his specialty radiology training in 1992.
Since 2003 Director and cofounder of Center for Medical Science and Visualization (CMIV) and professor Department of Health Medicine and Care, University of Link\"oping Sweden. Guest Professor, Clinical Science Intervention and Technology Karolinska Institute Sweden. Senior physician Radiology Link\"oping university Hospital. 
CMIV conducts focused front-line research within multidisciplinary projects providing solutions to tomorrow’s clinical issues. The mission is to develop future methods and tools for image analysis and visualization for applications within health care and medical research. CMIV is formally a center within Link\"oping University and is governed by its Board of Directors, with representatives from academia, health care and industry. CMIV is located in its own university premises, 7500 square meter, in  the center of the university hospital where a large number of clinical examinations are performed using its own modalities. Medical, computer science and AI research projects bring a mixed group of people together. More than 130 Engineers, technical and medical researchers, etc. are all involved in the center and its research.
Prof. Persson has been working in the field of medical image applications for over 30 years. Currently his research is focusing on algorithms for specific clinical investigations (Dual Energy, Photon Counting CT, Flow simulations and AI) mainly in the cardiovascular field. He has been a Visiting professor Mayo clinic's USA, May 2009 – lecturing forensic science. During 2014 -2020 member of the advisory board for the Photon-Counting CT at MAYO clinics. He has >200 Refereed journal and conference publications 2003-2020, >900 Invited talks and 10 book chapters. Large number of ongoing leadership, appointments and commissions of trust. European Institute of Bio Medical Imaging EIBIR (in Advisory board). Board member European ESR Research Committee. European Imaging Biomarkers Alliance, EIBAL. Board member Radiological Society of North America, Research \& Education.
Several international and national awards such as H.M. The Kings Gold Medal H.M. for special merit in Medical Image Science Research, 2017, RSNA Cum Lade and Lennart Nilsson Award. The Royal Photographic Society Award U.K. 2011, Athena award for best medical research in Sweden. The Royal College Society Combined Scientific Gold Medal in UK. 2013.

\subsection*{Bernhard Preim}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/Bernhard.jpg}
\end{Figure}

Bernhard Preim is a specialist in human-computer interaction as well as in visual computing for medicine. He is currently professor of visualization at University of Magdeburg, Germany.
Preim received the diploma in computer science in 1994 (minor in mathematics) and a PhD in 1998 from the Otto-von-Guericke University Magdeburg (PhD thesis "Interactive Illustrations and Animations for the Exploration of Spatial Relations"). In 1999, he joined the staff of MeVis (Center for Medical Diagnosis System and Visualization, headed by Heinz-Otto Peitgen). In close collaboration with radiologists and surgeons, he directed the work on "computer-aided planning in liver surgery" and initiated several projects funded by the German Research Council in the area of computer-aided surgery. In June 2002, he received the Habilitation degree (venia legendi) for computer science from the University of Bremen. Since Mars 2003 he is full professor for "Visualization" at the computer science department at the Otto-von-Guericke-University of Magdeburg, heading a research group which is focussed on medical visualization and applications in surgical education and surgery planning. These developments are summarized in the textbook Visualization in Medicine (Co-author Dirk Bartz, 2007). 
Bernhard Preim was founding speaker of the working group Medical Visualization in the German Society for Computer Science (2003–2012). He initiated the Karl-Heinz-H\"ohne Medvis-Award in 2004 to honor excellent research results from Phd students. He is the chair of the scientific advisory board of ICCAS and was president of the CURAC (German Society for Computer- and Roboter-assisted Surgery (2013-2015)) and Visiting Professor at the University of Bremen where he closely collaborates with MeVis Research (now Fraunhofer MEVIS). Together with Charl Botha, TU Delft, he founded the VCBM Eurographics workshop series and co-authored the book "Visual Computing for Medicine" (2013). He authored and co-authored three textbooks on "Interactive Systems" (1999, 2010, 2015).

\subsection*{Bradley J Erickson}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/Bradley.jpg}
\end{Figure}

Bradley J Erickson, MD PhD, received his MD and PhD degrees from Mayo Clinic. He went on to be trained in radiology, and then a Neuroradiology fellowship at Mayo, and has been on staff at Mayo for 20 years, where he does clinical Neuroradiology, has been chair of the Radiology Informatics Division and is Associate Chair for Research. He has been awarded multiple external grants, including NIH grants on MS, brain tumors, polycystic kidney disease, and medical image exchange. He is a former president of the Society of Imaging Informatics in Medicine, is current Chair of the American Board of Imaging Informatics, and serves on the Board of the IHE USA. He recently won the nVIDIA Global Impact Award for his work on deep learning applications in medical images.

\subsection*{Anders Dale}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
	\includegraphics[width=.9\linewidth]{../Sab/sab01/AndersDale.jpg}
\end{Figure}
Anders Martin Dale is a neuroscientist and Professor of Radiology, Neurosciences, Psychiatry, and Cognitive Science at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) and the founding Director of the Center for Multimodal Imaging Genetics (CMIG) at UCSD. His research focuses on the development and application of advanced techniques for acquisition and analysis of multimodal structural and functional imaging data. Several of these methods have had major, and in some cases transformative, impact on their respective fields. Specific examples include 1) development of rapid event related experimental design and statistical analysis methods for fMRI; 2) development of fully automated methods for segmentation of the cortical surface, subcortical nuclei, and white matter tracts from MRI scans – instantiated in the FreeSurfer software package, used by more than 10,000 researchers around the world; 3) development of standardized image acquisition protocols and analysis procedures enabling use of quantitative imaging biomarker in large-scale, multisite research studies, as well as in clinical practice – these procedures were fundamental to the success of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), the Pediatric Imaging Neurocognition and Genetics (PING), and the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study. He serves as the PI of the Data Analysis and Informatics Resource Center (DAIRC) of the ABCD Study. He has authored more than 500 peer-reviewed publications, with more than 118,000 total citations, an h-index of 148, and was recently listed among the top ten "most influential brain scientists of the modern era" (Science, 2016).
