title:  
subtitle:  
author: Ingfrid Haldorsen
tags: 
date:
text:

Mohn Medical Imaging and Visualization center (MMIV) was inaugurated in December 2017. The creation of MMIV was enabled by generous financial support from the Trond Mohn Foundation (TMF) coupled by human and financial support by Haukeland University Hospital (HUS) and the University of Bergen (UiB). These institutions shared a dream: the establishment of an imaging- and visualization center in Bergen. This center was established in order to facilitate high-impact research capitalizing on the advanced preclinical- and clinical imaging infrastructure recently installed at Haukeland/UiB. Furthermore, closer cooperation across institutions, faculties and departments was required in order to foster interdisciplinary research with the potential of yielding novel insight relevant for patient care.

Although still in its infancy, MMIV has already grown to become a strong interdisciplinary research center hosting >40 dedicated scientists. Since March 2019 MMIV has been co-localized in the new HUS premises on the top floor of the new Haraldsplass building, providing and excellent view of Bergensdalen. More importantly, the center comprises a vibrant hub for the exchange of ideas and expertise among researchers that all work on projects that prosper within MMIV.

MMIV is a part of the Department of Radiology at Haukeland University Hospital, and we are proud to be a research center located within the hospital – close to the patients and the factors that impact patient care: precise diagnosis and staging, accurate prognostication, and the development of tailored and targeted treatment strategies. The support from CEO Eivind Hansen, HUS and the Head of Dep. of Radiology Aslak Aslaksen, HUS has been instrumental for the successful organization of MMIV within HUS. Furthermore, we highly appreciate the support from UiB and Western Norway University of Applied Sciences (HVL) and their researchers working at MMIV, who represent cornerstones of the center. Importantly, the collaborative and mutually supportive attitudes displayed from all the institutions is central for the success of the center!

One highlight in 2019 was the MMIV conference entitled: “Convergence of medical data science for improved patient care” with >150 participants. The title of the conference captures one of the missions of MMIV: By capitalizing on the multidisciplinary expertise within the center, we strive to merge efforts with clinical doctors in their endeavors to transform patient care. Close integration between medical sciences and basic sciences, often denoted as convergence between sciences, is needed if we are to make substantial advances in medical health care in the years to come. Advances in computer science with the introduction of machine learning are likely to transform medicine in the near future, and this has an immediate relevance particularly within sciences related to diagnostic imaging as well as pathology and genetics. The conference featured world-leading experts in machine learning and advanced imaging technologies as well as clinical experts highlighting the clinical relevance and potential impact of these novel methods for patient care.

As the newly appointed Head of MMIV, it is my true privilege to introduce you to this report, showcasing some of the highlights and successful achievements at MMIV to date. I am confident that we are on the right track pursuing scientific success at MMIV in the years to come. Most importantly, we will continue to scrutinize and search for small pieces in the greater puzzle that may transform patient care! A mission really worth striving for!

\subsection*{Vision and Research Areas}
MMIV aims to:
\begin{itemize}
\item{Bring together technology and medicine for advancing the state of the art in medical imaging and visualization.}
\item{Provide refined imaging tools with which to characterize human disease by revealing imaging markers relevant for early detection and monitoring of disease and for developing individualized and targeted treatment strategies.}
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{Organization of the Center}
MMIV is organized as a unit within the Department of Radiology at HUS. Since March 2019 MMIV has been localized on the top floor of the new Haraldsplass building with spacious office facilities including 15 offices and additional meeting-/lunch rooms and mingling area.

The primary investigators (PIs) and researchers at MMIV hold their main positions at HUS, UiB, HVL or Norwegian Research Center (Norce), and some of the PIs also hold adjunct professorships/research positions at UiB/HUS.

HUS has PIs/researchers from Dep. of Radiology and Womens Clinic, and many collaborating partners at other hospital departments. The UiB has PIs/MMIV affiliated researchers from Faculty of Medicine (Depts. of Clinical Medicine, Clinical Science and Biomedicine), Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (Depts. of Informatics and Mathematics) and Faculty of Psychology (Dep. of Biological and Medical Psychology). HVL (Faculty of Engineering and Science) and NORCE (Dep. of Technology) are also represented with PIs.

\subsection*{Research Management}

MMIV research is organized into five focus areas with dedicated teams working closely together on research projects related to:

\begin{enumerate}
\item{Machine learning}
\item{Cancer imaging (focus on gynecologic cancer)}
\item{Neuroimaging (focus on fMRI and psychiatric disorders)}
\item{Advanced visualization}
\item{Research- PACS and infrastructure}
\end{enumerate}

The leadership group comprising principal investigators of these teams meet monthly to discuss scientific and administrative issues and share updates on progress and plans for the different projects. A monthly public MMIV seminar (duration 60 minutes) followed by coffee/waffles is hosted at Haraldplass in conjuncture with this leadership meeting. The daily management group at MMIV (comprising the Head of MMIV, Ingfrid Haldorsen, senior researcher Hauke Bartsch, associate professor Noeska Smit and Elin Myhrvold [secretary]) have weekly meetings.
