title: The Vitruvian Baby: Interactive reformation of 3D ultrasound data to a T-pose
subtitle: Seminar talk provided at the MMIV
author: Eric M\"orth
tags: Education, Seminars
date: 2020-09-01
location: MMIV
audience: MMIV
headerfig: ../Events/ev10/seminars.png
text:

This talk was presented by Eric M\"orth of MMIV. It is titled "The Vitruvian Baby: Interactive reformation of 3D ultrasound data to a T-pose". Eric is a PhD candidate for multi-modal medical visualization under the supervision 
of Noeska Smit (MMIV).

He introduced his talk with: {\it 
Three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound imaging and visualization is often used in medical diagnostics, especially in prenatal screening. Screening the development of the fetus is important to assess possible complications early on. Performing the analysis in a 3D view would enable the viewer to better discriminate between artefacts and representative information. Additionally making data comparable between different investigations and patients is a goal in medical imaging techniques and is often achieved by standardization. 

“The Vitruvian Baby” incorporates a complete pipeline for standardized measuring in fetal 3D ultrasound. The input of the method is a 3D ultrasound screening of a fetus and the output is the fetus in a standardized T-pose. In this pose, taking measurements is easier and comparison of different fetuses is possible. In addition to the transformation of the 3D ultrasound data, we create an abstract representation of the fetus based on accurate measurements.
}
