title: Seminar Series May 2021
subtitle: 
author: 
tags: Education, Seminars
date: 2021-05-21
location: Zoom
audience: MMIV
headerfig: ../Events/ev05/seminars.png
text:

The seminar talks of Mohn Medical Imaging and Visualization center are organized by a committee composed of graduate student, PhD students and post-docs. The format of the seminars is that of an open forum for 3 to 4 talks per day of 15 mins each about work in progress research topics across all of the MMIV projects. Each seminar day combines research of all projects at MMIV and each talk ends with a short discussion and feedback for the presented work. The seminar day concludes with a social get-together at MMIV with waffles and coffee.

Especially the more informal format of the seminar invite lively discussions that bridge the projects and presenters usually leave with many helpful suggestions for future research and potential collaborations. The multi-project format of the seminars provide a valuable revenue to foster inter-group relationships at MMIV.

\paragraph*{Histogram based functional connectivity in resting state fMRI: Irritable bowel syndrome vs healthy controls}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
\end{Figure}

This talk was given by Bharath Halandur Nagaraja. Bharath has a PhD in electrical engineering form KU Leuven, Belgium. He is currently working as a postdoc in Brain-Gut project. He writes ``Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a heterogenous chronic gastrointestinal disorder, where the brain-gut axis plays an important role. Neuroimaging techniques like rs-fMRI are useful in the study of brain-gut interactions. A new functional connectivity measure based on histogram was employed in a machine learning framework to differentiate IBS and HC and to identify important ROIs.''

\paragraph*{Potential benefits and challenges of dynamic 18F-FDG PET-CT in gynecologic cancer. Overview and preliminary results from preclinical models and gynecologic cancer patients}
\begin{Figure}
    \centering
\end{Figure}

This talk was joint presentation from Heidi Espedal and Kristine Fasmer. Heidi is a post doc in the cancer imaging group at MMIV with a background in cell biology from UiB and she is also running the preclinical PET-CT facilities. Kristine is a medical phycicist in nuclear medicine and a PhD candidate in the cancer imaging group working with gynecologic cancer patients.
