title: The Brain Imaging Data of the ABCD Study – an Introduction into Protocols and Tasks
subtitle: Seminar talk provided at the MMIV
author: Hauke Bartsch
tags: Education, Seminars
date: 2020-09-01
location: MMIV
audience: MMIV
headerfig: ../Events/ev11/seminars.png
text:

This talk was presented by Hauke Bartsch of MMIV. It is titled "The Brain Imaging Data of the ABCD Study – an Introduction into Protocols and Tasks". Hauke is a researcher at the MMIV.

The ABCD study is recruiting and following the brain development and health of over 10,000 $9$-$10$ year olds through adolescence. The imaging component of the study was developed by the ABCD Data Analysis and Informatics Center (DAIC) and the ABCD Imaging Acquisition Workgroup. Imaging methods and assessments were selected, optimized and harmonized across all 21 sites to measure brain structure and function relevant to adolescent development and addiction. This article provides an overview of the imaging procedures of the ABCD study, the basis for their selection and preliminary quality assurance and results that provide evidence for the feasibility and age-appropriateness of procedures and generalizability of findings to the existent literature.

He introduced his talk with: {\it 
The Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study is the largest long-term study of brain development and child health in the United States. The ABCD Research Consortium have invited 11,878 children ages 9-10 to join the study. Researchers will track their biological and behavioral development through adolescence into young adulthood.

Using cutting-edge technology, scientists will determine how childhood experiences (such as sports, video-games, social media, unhealthy sleep patterns, and smoking) interact with each other and with a child’s changing biology to affect brain development and social, behavioral, academic, health, and other outcomes. 

As part of a research agreement, MMIV will obtain access to the raw data that includes an extensive MRI protocol as well as behavioral and environmental data.
}
