Projects/pr04/pr04.md, before:

title: Precision imaging in gynecologic cancer
subtitle: The search for biomarkers in cancer research
author: Ingfrid Haldorsen
tags: Project
date: 2020-02-02
text:

Gynecologic cancers have characteristic structural and functional imaging features reflected in clinical phenotypes, and these imaging biomarkers highlight pathogenic mechanisms potentially targetable by novel treatments. The challenge is now to integrate these imaging biomarkers into clinically relevant treatment algorithms by identifying molecular targets for treatment based on imaging biomarker profiles. Our multidisciplinary research team with competency in computer science, visualization and machine learning algorithms, diagnostic radiology, clinical gynecology, preclinical models and molecular biology/genetics will join efforts to pursue these challenges as one of the funded projects within Centre for Medical Imaging and Visualization in Bergen.

\begin{Figure}
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{../Projects/pr04/Announcement.png}  
    \captionof{figure}{\normalfont\sffamily\small Biomarker research.}
\end{Figure}

Molecular and imaging biomarkers in gynecologic cancer will be studied in patients and in preclinical gynecologic cancer models (Figure). Potential imaging biomarkers will be identified using machine learning algorithms applied to multiparametric and functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) from patients and in mouse models during therapy. Furthermore, the molecular and genetic alterations in the tumors as well as clinical phenotype and survival will be studied in relation to the corresponding imaging biomarker profile using integrative analyses. This research initiative provides a unique platform for identifying promising molecular targets for treatment and their corresponding imaging biomarker profiles. Studying imaging biomarkers in mice during targeted therapy will also facilitate the integration of imaging biomarker guided treatment algorithms and imaging guided monitoring of treatment response in gynecologic cancer. This project has the potential to improve patient care by enabling individualized and targeted treatment in gynecologic cancer patients.

Commit message:

Updating projects
Adjusted the template and added Ingfrid's project information

Projects/pr04/pr04.md, after:

title: Precision imaging in gynecologic cancer
subtitle: From conventional and novel imaging markers to radiomic tumor profiling unraveling targets for therapy and personalized treatment strategies in gynecologic cancer 
author: Ingfrid Haldorsen
senior: prof. Camilla Krakstad, prof. Antonella Zanna Munte-Kaas, Erlend Hodneland, Erling Andre Høivik 
post: Heidi Espedal, Havjin Jacob 
phd: Sigmund Ytre-Hauge, Kristine E. Fasmer, Julie Dybvik, Njål Lura, Kari Strøno Wagner-Larsen, Hildegunn Aase, Geir K Nilsen, Agnes J Eide 
text:

\textbf{Research focus:} Gynecologic cancers have characteristic structural and functional imaging features reflected in clinical phenotypes, and these imaging biomarkers highlight pathogenic mechanisms potentially targetable by novel treatments. The focus in this project is to integrate these imaging biomarkers into clinically relevant treatment algorithms by identifying molecular targets for treatment based on imaging biomarker profiles.  

\textbf{Project:} Imaging- and molecular/tissue biomarkers in gynecologic cancer are studied in patients and in preclinical gynecologic cancer models (Figure). Potential imaging biomarkers are identified using machine learning algorithms applied to multiparametric and functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) from patients and in mouse models during therapy. Furthermore, the molecular and genetic alterations in the same tumors as well as clinical phenotype and survival are studied in relation to the corresponding imaging biomarker profile. This setup provides a unique platform for identifying promising molecular targets for treatment and their corresponding imaging biomarker profiles.  


\begin{Figure}
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{../Projects/pr04/Announcement.png}  
    \captionof{figure}{\normalfont\sffamily\small}
\end{Figure}


\textbf{Important results:} MRI- and CT based tumor textural features (radiomic signatures) predict aggressive disease in endometrial cancer. 

\textbf{Future plans:} Develop and validate AI platforms for automated and accurate tumor segmentation in gynecologic cancer for extraction of whole-volume radiomic tumor signatures (in collaboration with Machine Learning Group/A. Lundervold). 

Develop novel visualization tools with which to explore and assess multidimensional imaging data in relation to clinical/tissue data in gynecologic cancer (in collaboration with Visualization Group/N. Smit).  

Collect and analyze imaging data (for validation in "external" test sets) from gynecological cancer patients treated at different institutions using Research PACS (in collaboration with Hauke Bartsch).   

Assess the radiogenomic tumor profile linking genetic signature to radiomic signature in gynecologic cancer (in collaboration with Bergen Gynecologic Cancer Research Group/Prof. Camilla Krakstad).  

\textbf{Current challenges in the field:} Three major clinical challenges in gynecologic cancers are: (1) Overtreatment of low-risk patients (with early stage disease) who experience unnecessary surgical and/or radiotherapy-/chemotherapy-induced side effects and thereby reduced quality of life. (2) Undertreatment of patients falsely categorized as low-risk patients who will experience recurrence. (3) Poor survival in metastatic disease with no effective targeted therapy or response marker to conventional systemic therapies. The role of imaging markers and radiomic tumor profiling for risk-stratified tailored treatment algorithms and development of targeted therapies is not yet defined.   

\textbf{Focus in the coming years:} Explore and exploit the potential of precision imaging to enable more targeted treatment strategies and improved patient care in gynecologic cancer.
